- yen if you're trying to package your
Beach vacation in Israel as political
activism you got to think twice if you
are packaging a beach vacation in
Myanmar can't you show some sympathy
can't you show some concern can't you
show some engagement with the political
reality the situation
[Music]
oh-oh-oh I'm not doing that to pander
for a fish I don't think anyone donates
to me on the basis of my my fabulous
girlfriend or or Beach tastic quality of
life I don't think so I think you've
been with me during that I think you saw
I got less and less support and less and
less interest I definitely had fewer and
fewer female supporters on patreon when
I went public with my with my you know
it shouldn't be that fine a dotted line
between political leader and camwhore
those two things should be really far
apart 2018 you know real close together
to be a great I didn't know and I come
upon University and I say the same thing
Banas Yin white when I first started the
channel I used to criticize a lot the
rhetoric coming out of wanes young and
direct action everywhere so if you've
never heard of them don't google them
you don't want to know but I used to
criticize them a lot for their rhetoric
saying that veganism should be based on
and imitate the tactics and historical
experience of dr. Martin Luther King jr.
other vegan groups that have criticized
have I think really exaggerated the
extent to which MLK dr. Martin Luther
King jr. can be used as an exemplar for
being inst imitate the comparison
between the situation of the black civil
rights movement in America and our
situation as vegans in 2018 is really
extremely imperfect or extremely
approximate to use one as an allegory
for the other is going to be imperfect
and misleading at best but nevertheless
in circumstances like this I think I can
ask the question fairly enough what
would Martin Luther King jr. do what
would MLK do if all these vegan
activists want
make these propaganda claims saying that
we're the same as these civil rights
demonstrators that our situation is
comparable you know what we're doing for
cows is somehow parallel to these other
you know struggles for for human rights
and human liberation well I don't know I
take a look at Paul Bashir I take a look
at James ass B I take a look at
Earthling ad I take a look at Joey carb
strong if these four guys four really
prominent vegan activists if they
stepped up their game by directly
imitating the style substance rhetoric
and even organization of dr. Martin
Luther King jr. would that make things
better or would that make things worse
as imperfect and flawed as the allegory
may be I've got to tell you in every way
and in every sense I think that would
only make things better you know a James
a speak what would Martin Luther King
jr. do what would MLK do would MLK be oh
here with tens of thousands of dollars
of tattoos on his bare chest swimming in
the ocean making that into you know
vegan propaganda would would Martin
Luther King jr. be on Instagram doing
what you're doing or if he did what
would his attitude be towards that will
he be proud of that
whee-hee actively be out here preaching
that that's his main and most effective
form of activism
if MLK was alive today he probably would
have an Instagram but I mean that would
be a hobby or a minor hobby at best and
I don't think he'd be using the platform
you know in in the way that you are I
think it's interesting that the less and
less legitimate the examples of vegan
activism are that we apply it to no the
more obvious its utility may seem
freelee the banana girl freely if you've
never heard of her
don't google her don't you don't want to
know live the rest your life not knowing
who freelee the banana girl was freelee
the banana girl said for years that she
was the most effective vegan activist in
the world
okay I made out that claim freely today
spends her time on permanent vacation
living in the jungle weaving her own
baskets growing her own vegetables
engaged in handicrafts and I don't know
outdoor gardening I'm what what can I
tell you all right you can look at her
career at any stage and ask this same
simple question what would MLK do what
would dr. Martin Luther King jr. have
done if this bizarre circumstances and I
think we all know the answer is not this
and I think there were way better
examples than em okay I'm not believe me
I mean this is a really you know this is
like using a rubber ruler to measure a
round object or something these things
don't really fit together that well this
is not a perfect metric we're applying
here but really loosely part of the
crisis of confidence in vegan leadership
is precisely that these people want to
be rewarded as professional
revolutionaries as professional full
time activists and what they're doing
isn't professional at all and this
brings us to the main topic of this
video
Israel many a social and political cause
has been destroyed internally by
opinions about Israel the latest lie
being spread about me is that I am a
racist because in a calm and sober
assessment of the israeli-palestinian
situation I said that Palestinians are
the most psychotic group of people on
the planet I stand by that statement a
few moments later let me be extra clear
about this the holy land does not belong
to the Palestinians or the Israelis it
belongs to the animals here in Canada
the Green Party of Canada just a couple
of years ago tore itself apart I think
the leadership resign
and they elected a new leader and a
whole bunch of their members quit
because they could not decide what their
policy statement on Israel and Palestine
should be right now in Israel nobody
cares what the Green Party of Canada has
to say about their political situation
right now in Palestine nobody's life is
going to be improved or made worse by
the policy position of the Green Party
of Canada but this tore the party apart
even though they're a political party
that's supposed to be defined by ecology
environmentalism concern about pollution
and there's really no reason and for
them to have liked a foreign policy or
humanitarian intervention statement
about Israel of Canada's mainstream
parties the one that's furthest to the
left the mainstream left-wing the NDP
every time a major election comes up the
precise wording of what is their
position on Israel and Palestine I read
it I got it on paper the last the last
election I was here from Canada anyway
and I remember it was like oh well you
know we simultaneously support peace for
all and justice for all
mm-hmm yeah I don't know look politics
can make hypocrites of us all conflict
over Israel and Palestine tore my own
family apart it tore it apart before I
was born and it's gonna continue tearing
it apart until the older generation dies
my Jewish grandmother was estranged from
two of her own daughters because two of
her daughters were anti Zionist and she
my grandmother became pro-zionist I
don't know when she took that on in her
life I don't know when she took on that
position and you know as her life went
on actually one of her two daughters who
had been hit his I&S flipped and became
pro-zionist and then those two daughters
didn't get along anymore they used to be
close friends they became enemies they
hated each other over it every single
person in my family was touched
one way or another by basically the
question of how much of a hypocrite are
you willing to be over Israel and
Palestine now my own attitude towards
this is nihilistic and pragmatic and
people always want to ask me about this
and one of the main reasons to not deal
with it is that there's no positive
difference I can make I had an Israeli
guy come into my livestream chat and in
a totally sympathetic manner I mentioned
to him you know at one time I started
the application process to become an
Israeli citizen and you do a series of
phone calls and interviews right at the
beginning that process before you've
signed any paperwork what have you you
know that want to counsel you about this
decision and one of the people asked me
over the phone so this was something
like an Israeli embassy employee you
know low level somehow connected to the
government of Israel type of person
asked me why would you want to move to
Israel and I gave the following answer
if you guys know me if you know my
channel you know I'm being a hundred
percent honest about this and I was a
hundred percent honest and blunt at the
time I said you know in the past I did
humanitarian work in Laos and Cambodia
I've really always had an interest in
living in war-torn poverty-stricken
disaster areas and I see Israel as a
place that's right in the middle of all
that it's not it's not gonna end anytime
soon you know I said in slightly more
words that I regard Israel as a disaster
but for me from my position that's okay
just as with living in a place like
Cambodia if you feel that you can make a
positive difference in that disaster if
you can have some kind of humanitarian
engagement with it then it can be very
rewarding to live in an area that has
some features of you know civil war
poverty you know etc I just mentioned
also you know I did humanitarian work
where there there was still civil war on
right on the border between Laos and
Myanmar so there they're actually still
were bullets flying not worth digressing
into but in terms of ongoing civil war
in some ways a very peaceful place to
live but you know you knew just around
the corner
you'd meet people who were shaking up
who'd just come from you know situations
with gunfire and stuff so was out of
sight but not out of mind the the sort
of various low-level revolts and civil
wars going on up there at that time when
I did that
humanitarian work so anyway I once had
this guy come come into my live stream
and I was talking about this just as I'm
talking now into the camera to the
microphone and this guy's I don't know
anything else about him he's vegan and
he's in Israel he was incredibly upset
and defiant and enraged and he demanded
to know how do you define disaster how
can you describe Israel's disaster like
as if he thinks Israel is a great
success story or something I don't know
but he objected to to the use of the
word disaster and for me it's exactly a
word like that that has to be accepted
as value neutral I mean whatever it was
whatever the utopian vision was when
Israel was founded by the Zionists who
believed that this was a good idea at
the time it sure wasn't this right I
mean the current status quo whether it's
the status quo for secular Jews
religious Jews Arab Israelis or
Palestinians this is not what anyone
wanted when they signed on for this
project so I think it's really fair to
say as an outsider this is a disaster
now there are a million other ways you
can just measure it being a disaster any
country where the military budget is
over a certain number or any country
where the number of shootings per annum
in order to keep the peace over certain
um you could probably come up with some
objective metrics in terms of the extent
to which just constant low-level
violence is necessary to maintain the
illusion of a Western European standard
of life in the middle of the desert
surrounded by hostile countries and with
of course so much hostility within the
country
um that strean I think it's fair to to
describe that as a disaster so to be
completely blunt and direct here I am
NOT a Zionist I I think it is fair to
say I am an anti Zionist however I'm
also a nihilist and I'm a pragmatist and
I never make the mistake that so many
left wingers do I never make the mistake
of looking at Israel seeing what's wrong
with Israel and then assuming that
there's something right with the other
side assuming that there's something
right with Hamas assuming that there's
something right with the Palestinian
Liberation Organization or you know
Palestinian Authority whatever the other
negotiating parties might be at the time
I don't look at that situation and
assume there's something right about the
government of Syria
or the government of Iran or the other
really vocal opponents be very simply
you know both sides can be wrong and in
terms of what's possible and practicable
in making the situation better that may
involve some very tough very you know
morally flawed decisions what's the next
step you take from here and obviously
guys we just went through this
in Afghanistan I don't know if nobody
else noticed but the United States
Canada and England with many millions of
dollars spent by other countries but
huge budgets spent by the
english-speaking countries is spent an
enormous amount of money trying to make
Afghanistan into I guess what you could
call a modern nation-state a working
country with all you know some of the
hardest things to achieve just having a
normal male and parcel delivery service
having postage stamps again in
Afghanistan they started from such a low
level of social development and
organization and you you take a look
look at all the terrible ethical
consequences sorry I should have said
look at the terrible ethical compromises
and look at how meager the final
outcomes and consequences are there's
not a lot to show from that engagement
and there's no question that in
next ten years none of these countries
United States Canada England none of
them are gonna make Israel the same kind
of priority that they made Afghanistan
over such a long period of time so the
hope for things getting better or
significantly changing is very dim my
problem is that celebrity culture has
devoured political culture the problem
with James ASPI going to the beach in
Israel and just saying how beautiful it
is just saying how wonderful everything
is is very simply that he's not remotely
living up to the standard that we would
expect of someone like dr. Martin Luther
King jr. if you're trying to package
your beach vacation in Israel as
political activism you got to think
twice if you were packaging a beach
vacation in Myanmar can't you show some
sympathy can't you show some concern
can't you show some engagement with the
political reality of the situation I've
been asking this about Israel I've been
asking this about Thailand I've been
asking this about so many places around
the world for years and years
I said look there were beaches
everywhere if vegans were doing this in
Egypt or the Ukraine I mean sorry there
are actually some beautiful beaches you
know in the Crimea you know if you're
doing this anywhere where there's a war
zone or where a military dictatorship
has taken over the government why is
there just no sensitivity no curiosity
no engagement no interest if Martin
Luther King jr. took a vacation in these
places you know I know maybe he couldn't
make a difference maybe he couldn't do
anything but you tell me what would
Martin Luther King jr. do what would MLK
do am i so wildly optimistic to think
that he would show more sensitivity more
concern and more engagement with the
political reality of these countries
whether it's we think of that as the
suffering of the oppressed or just the
events going on
in these wars etc.etc scarcity of water
ecological problems whatever there were
a million issues you could tug at here
but given that these are people who are
both political leaders and on permanent
vacation I don't think this is too much
to ask and and I really think it's a
credit to vegans across the board that
they have the maturity now to start
asking these questions to say why can't
our political leaders live up to a
higher standard so that we don't feel
embarrassed and ashamed so that we don't
feel that the good name of veganism is
being dragged through the mud by those
who boast that they're the world's most
influential leaders by those who boast
that they're doing the most to
quote-unquote save the planet human
rights activist Ashley travel to the
gaza strip to build chicken coops so
who's the real prisoner who's the real
victim who's got it bad I would never go
to jail nor give up my freedom or my
life for any human rights cause because
we are monsters one struggle one fight
Animal Liberation [ __ ] Human Rights
[Music]
evolution